it's clear we live in a society
we are social creatures for the most
part so we want to ensure that the
people around us
aren't suffering needlessly we don't
want to see our neighbours
struggling to make ends meet and in the
cases where they
are struggling we want to be able to do
something to help them
the unexpected can always happen and so
there needs to be some kind of safety
net in order to help people
who find themselves in a precarious
situation
it might be a precarious health
situation in which case they need
some kind of medical care provided by
the state
by the society in which they live no one
says that we shouldn't have state-funded
roads do they
the roads are there built by the state
so that everyone can get from here to
there faster than they otherwise would
have
how much more important is the health of
a society the physical well-being
of people and for those people who can't
afford
to pay for their own health care because
by virtue of
accident by genetic accident they're
going to be suffering cancer while
someone else
doesn't just because of their dna why
should they be punished
why shouldn't the state step in to help
them
compassion and love means coming
together
as a group in order to identify the
people who are
at most risk in society at risk of
falling through the cracks and so for
this reason we have things like
welfare we have benefits paid to people
who are
unemployed or who reach old age with
insufficient savings
people who have a disability of some
kind or other
we have these kind of safety nets this
social welfare
payments by the state from people who
can afford it
from people who are wealthy and who pay
their taxes
to the extent they can afford they pay
more tax
and that tax money goes to those in
their society
who can't otherwise afford to meet their
basic needs
for example their health care for
example even feeding themselves and
taxation is on a sliding scale people on
low incomes in a place like australia
pay nothing in taxes whatsoever
and the people on the highest incomes
they still don't pay too much
they pay more however than people on the
lower end of the tax scale
but whatever the case taxes are a net
benefit to society
taxes go to paying for the roads that
already exist and to maintain those
roads
they go towards things like hospitals
and schools
they go towards police and the court
system without these things in
particular
the police in the court system there
would be anarchy there would be chaos
there would be a society without
institutions that maintain
the stability required in order
for us to make fast progress off into
the indefinite future
in other words we need at least some
level of socialism
that much is obvious all we're going to
debate now is precisely how much
socialism we need
the poorest among us need to be
sustained in some way
so that they can flourish that might
mean a minimum
income in the case of where they
actually have a job they need to be
given a minimum wage
they shouldn't just be able to be paid
anything by the employer that's seeking
to employ them
that state needs to regulate and set a
minimum wage a minimum
living wage so that people can live at
least somewhat comfortably
and for those who do not have work or
cannot find work
then they're going to need to be given a
minimum welfare check of some
kind they need to be able to have the
freedom to go out and to buy the bare
essentials they need
the food they need the shelter to put
roof over their head
they need to be able to clothe
themselves so they can eventually
hopefully
get to a job interview so we need
socialism
to stop people from falling through the
cracks and you'll know this
if you yourself have ever been a student
or you've been
unemployed or you've suddenly suffered
severe sickness
or some other kind of natural disaster
where you need the state
to step in where socialism is required
where society comes together
to help you people who don't even know
you the taxpayers around you
coming to help you the state coming to
help you socialism
provides that net and the term safety
net should not be
derided it's important that people know
and have the security of realizing
that should the worst go wrong then
some entity will step in to help them
the state will step in this
you are not alone the state is able to
help you and the amount that the state
gives to people isn't like they're going
to become rich
it's just enough to meet their basic
needs
this is why socialism is required so
that people can meet their basic needs
in situations and circumstances where
they otherwise wouldn't be able to
where they might otherwise die of
starvation or die
of serious illness we need unemployment
benefits
so that when you don't have a job you
won't go hungry and starve to death
we need a minimum wage so that when you
do have a job you have enough
to survive and perhaps even save some so
that you can get out of that
lowest income bracket and maybe save
some money for a house
at this point we should realize that it
would be better
if we taxed the top earners in society
more than what we do
the top one percent as we talk about or
the top 0.001
if we just talk about the most wealthy
people in the united states
it's often said we should tax them more
and then we could pay for so much more
the united states for example
could have free health care for everyone
and
sometimes this is straw man this is a
straw man by saying well
people who claim this you know if we
would just tax the top 100 earning
billionaires in the usa somewhat more
than we could pay
for universal health care and perhaps a
universal basic income
well the straw manning of this is that
people don't realize what we're really
talking about is not just taking the
personal income of these people
but taking a little bit of the revenue
of the top
companies the top earning companies
across the united states
i mean look at this table look at how
much money
companies like walmart and amazon just
to name the top
two are earning that amount of revenue
if it was taxed at a higher rate than
what it is would easily provide
enough money for universal basic income
and universal health care across the
country
why not do this this is not only about
economics this is about
morality what we need to do is to have
more compassion in society we need to
consider
people who can't make ends meet at times
who can't find the health care they need
can't afford the health care they need
and who can't afford the food they
otherwise need this is why we need
a welfare state this is why happiness
is very strongly coupled to how
socialist a country is
and this is why we need to defend
socialism
it's clear we live in a society
we are social creatures for the most
part
so we want to ensure that the people
around us aren't suffering
needlessly who can disagree with that
it's a strange impulse that people
have that if you were to object
to the first part mainly that we live in
a society typically
and scientifically speaking we're social
creatures
even if there are a whole bunch of
people who aren't particularly social
they're called introverts it's a strange
impulse to then think that
if you don't endorse socialism that
you're unconcerned about
the suffering of others this really does
this debate about socialism versus
other ways of organizing society and
particularly
economic systems that
people on one side of the debate don't
care
about the suffering of people or care
less about the suffering of people
maybe they've thought through the logic
of the situation
which is what i want to try and do today
to try and think through the logic
of how best to help the most number of
people
this isn't necessarily a utilitarian
argument but if you begin with
certain ideas certain explanations about
how people behave and about how
knowledge is created and therefore how
wealth is created
maybe you will find that pursuing
particular ways of trying to get the
most number of people the most wealthy
you possibly can
will lead to a dead end whereas the on
the flip side
if you've thought your entire life that
the only way to help the most number of
people
is for everyone to join together into a
collective
and help each other rather than for
everyone to pursue
their own happiness and their own ends
we don't want to see our neighbours
struggling to make ends meet and in the
cases where they are
struggling we want to be able to do
something to help them
again no matter what your economic
perspective it's independent of
whether or not you want to help other
people or not
there can be socialists who don't care
about helping other people and they can
be capitalists who really do care about
helping other people one thing that many
people who identify as capitalists are
concerned about when it comes to
socialism is that takes away from them
the very real opportunity they would
otherwise have
to help someone instead it's handed away
to the state and the state is an entity
but it's not a thinking thing it doesn't
actually have compassion
and this is the really worrying aspect
of things that if you
hand over to an entity which lacks
compassion because it's not capable of
having compassion it's after all just an
entity it's not an individual person
only individuals can have compassion
then it will deal with people in a way
which is not compassionate
on the other hand if you enable
individuals to help one another
they will have compassion one for
another and they can show kindness
one to another the unexpected can
always happen and so there needs to be
some kind of safety net
in order to help people who find
themselves
in a precarious situation it might be a
precarious health situation in which
case they need
some kind of medical care provided by
the state by the society in which they
live
no one says that we shouldn't have
state-funded roads do they
well actually some people do some of us
recognize
that the state-funded roads are
particularly
poorly kept and if you compare them to
the toll roads the
privately funded roads those privately
funded roads work so much better
the only thing is that these roads have
been grandfathered in
so to speak the roads that were built by
the state were built by the state
precisely because and maintained by the
state precisely because
they insisted that no one else build
roads
they insisted on total control of the
and so they passed laws saying they are
the only entity
able to build the roads except in
certain situations
these days where great freeways are made
that are private and you have to pay a
toll to go onto those roads
there's absolutely no reason why this
day and age of technology
and google maps you couldn't have
entirely private roads
and you would pay for the roads to the
extent that you drove on them and
actually utilise them or use some sort
of transportation that went along them
whether that's
walking or riding a bike or driving your
car or catching a bus
and then people would be interested in
maintaining the roads
that they use every day and the roads
that get used more often
would end up having more income put into
them if they were privately owned
and maintained far better than the roads
that barely ever got used which of
course wouldn't need as much maintenance
whatever the case this so-called public
goods issue
the idea that there are certain things
out there in society that by virtue of
the fact that we've always done it this
way
need to continue to be always done this
is a silly idea of looking at any form
of innovation that just because
the road is there built by the
government doesn't mean it needs to be
forever
owned by the government and maintained
by the government there are entities out
there more creative
and better suited at looking after
things like roads then the government is
the government as i like to say is
experted almost nothing
except the use of force that's about it
the roads are there
built by the state so that everyone can
get from here to there faster than they
otherwise would have
how much more important is the health of
a society the physical well-being
of people and for those people who can't
afford
to pay for their own health care because
by virtue of accident by genetic
accident they're going to be suffering
cancer while someone else
doesn't just because of their dna why
should they be punished
why shouldn't the state step in to help
them
one reason is in the counterfactual
world
the alternative world okay in australia
we do have this so-called universal
health care
but in an alternate world where we
didn't have universal health care
and we actually pay something called the
medicare levy we pay normal tax
which is quite substantial and then on
top of that we pay the
medicare levy so everyone actually pays
a separate amount of tax it's about
two percent of your usual income of your
overall income
just for the purpose of having health
care and so that is some number of
thousands of dollars per person per year
now if that if people weren't paying
that for example if i wasn't paying that
every single year i certainly do not
consume
in costs all of those thousands of
dollars that i pay to the government
for medicare for the universal health
care each and every year i go
nowhere near that i also have private
health insurance as well as
paying the medicare everyone in
australia pays to medicare but if they
didn't pay the medicare
that money could go into savings that
money could go into private health care
so everyone would be much more wealthy
much more
able to invest in their own health care
to the extent that they require it
and one may say well what about the
situations where
you are confronted with a with a vast
cost for your healthcare you're involved
in a
traffic accident or you have cancer and
you need
very expensive treatments again this
comes down to
private health care and private health
care would be
far more affordable in the case
where people don't contribute so much
money in taxation
to the government if they're able to
keep it for themselves
what about people who can't still can't
afford it this already happens by the
way
there are many many situations where
even with
universal health care people still
end up requiring treatments that are
experimental or that the government
simply doesn't
fund or that australia for example isn't
able to provide and people have to
travel overseas for example to the
united states in order to get
particular treatments and in those cases
what happens is we have
charities we have gofundmes and these
things are actually
very effective and they require no
coercion no force
people just announce that they need
particular treatments particular health
care that the government isn't providing
and the generosity of the society in
which they find themselves
reveals itself through the voluntary
donations towards these crowd funded
things
one may say well why should people have
to do that why isn't it demeaning that a
person has to do that
i don't think so wasn't it jesus who
said ask and you shall receive
people should be willing to have
gratitude for the people that help them
if the state is merely providing things
very few people who receive health care
ever thank the people in society who've
paid the taxes in order for them to
receive that health care at least in
this situation of voluntary
donations the person actually can show
their gratitude
to specific people who have helped them
it concentrates both the compassion and
the gratitude
this is good for a society whereas if
you
disperse and dilute both the gratitude
and the compassion
no one seems to care about anyone else
and this is a bad thing
compassion and love means coming
together
as a group in order to identify the
people who are
at most risk in society at risk of
falling through the cracks and so for
this reason we have things like
welfare we have benefits paid to people
who are
unemployed or who reach old age with
insufficient savings
people who have a disability of some
kind or other
we have these kind of safety nets this
social welfare
payments by the state from people who
can afford it
from people who are wealthy and who pay
their taxes
to the extent they can afford they pay
more tax
and that tax money goes to those in
their society
who can't otherwise afford to meet their
basic needs
for example their healthcare for example
even feeding themselves
it's interesting i began that part of
the defense of socialism
with this idea of love and compassion a
loving and compassionate society
would ensure that people don't fall
through the cracks but in fact
as i've also said compassion and love
are the very things that just
that are distilled out of a socialist
society there is no such thing as a
compassionate society
there are compassionate individuals and
if you take away the capacity of an
individual
to go and help another individual then
there is no compassion there
all that's happening is that a
government which again
is made up of systems and institutions
incapable
of loving incapable of showing
compassion
what those things do is merely enact
processes enact legislation and
regulations that's all that's going on
it's a big
unthinking machine it's the difference
between artificial intelligence
a regular computer that is unthinkingly
going about its business
the wheels and the cogs are turning the
transistors are on or off
and an actual person who is thinking
and feeling deliberating and considering
the extent to which they're going to
show compassion
or not show compassion that person is
deserving of their charity
or not deserving of their charity
because the person giving the charity
either has sufficient wealth
to share it around or not what the state
does
is take away that love and compassion it
takes away the capacity
of the individual who might not have
enough money
to actually sacrifice to some extent now
i'm not for
sacrifice but at least a person has a
choice
in the situation where the state hasn't
removed the choice from them
there are many people just below the
threshold at which
if only they were above the threshold
would be giving charity
far more frequently but they can't give
to charity more frequently
precisely because the government has
taken away
much of their money through taxation
socialism therefore is not
compassionate it is the opposite of
compassionate
it is cruel by the imposition of
systems and regulations on people who
otherwise would be able to show
generosity charity and compassion and
taxation is on a sliding scale people on
low incomes in a place like australia
pay nothing in taxes whatsoever
and the people on the highest incomes
they still don't pay too much
they pay more however than people on the
lower end of the tax scale
but whatever the case taxes are a net
benefit to society
taxes go to paying for the roads that
already exist and to maintain those
roads
they go towards things like hospitals
and schools
they go towards police and the court
system
if the government could run things
really efficiently and really well
then the logical conclusion one should
reach
is that they provide almost everything
in society
for example equally as important as
healthcare is food
why doesn't the government distribute
food forget mcdonald's forget your local
supermarket forget the local chinese
takeaway
have the government deliver food to
people
food is very very important after all as
important as healthcare you have
no health if you don't have any food why
don't we do this
because it's quite obvious that private
enterprise the free exchange of goods
between people
works far more efficiently in a society
where
people are freely able to exchange goods
and you end up with more food in such
society you end up with
much more food production in society and
much more consumption in its society
where there is the free exchange of
money for food
repeat for mobile phones repeat for cars
repeat for air travel
and etc but there are certain things
where people say oh no the government is
better at this particular thing
for example health care is the one that
comes up most frequently in roads as
well
as i've already said i think the roads
that are private
end up being a lot better maintained
than the roads that aren't
the healthcare one is very contentious
and the reason the healthcare one is
contentious
is as many people have observed it's
mainly an issue in the united states and
it's mainly an issue in the united
states because
there is not universal health care there
and
they have a less regulated
pharmaceutical industry
and it is true the united states
subsidizes
the rest of the world's pharmaceuticals
this is simply a fact
the pharmaceutical companies that are
there in the united states
are able to develop experiment
and research new drugs new medicines
and then sell those to the most wealthy
market in the world which is the united
states
and the united states happily for the
moment
at least to some extent not as much as
should be able to
is able to sell those drugs and make a
profit
so that they can then put that money
back into research
to make new drugs for example covert
vaccines
other countries have governments that
make regulations
on the cost of medicines i know
australia does
australia makes deals with
pharmaceutical companies
such that the drugs can come into the
country the medicines can be imported
into our country
but at a specific price point and that
price point
is just enough so that the profit margin
is very very very slim for any drugs
that are imported into australia
because australia the australian
government being a huge market
is able to demand that now of course the
pharmaceutical companies could turn
around and say
no we're not going to sell you any
pharmaceuticals at that price
but then of course their reputation and
their marketing looks terrible the
australian government says well the the
company has refused to sell us
those drugs so the pharmaceutical
companies make very little money
they make some but they make very little
money by selling their new drugs
especially the new drugs
to places like australia but they make
good money in the united states or at
least better money
this is unfair it would be far better if
the
drug market was largely unregulated
which is largely what
happened by the way with these covert
vaccines a lot of the regulations were
dropped
so that there was natural competition
arose
and very fast development faster than
ever happened before because the
regulations were
removed i know some people strangely
enough the people that are
on the more conservative side of the
aisle are worried about the fact
that some of these drugs were pushed
through very quickly but in fact that's
a good thing it's better that they
didn't have to go through
so many trials and be so heavily
regulated as almost all other
pharmaceuticals are
the regulation of the pharmaceutical
industry is
a travesty we can see that now that when
the stakes are high
for a global pandemic emergencies such
as the covet-19 emergency
we had fast development of vaccines and
these companies were able to make
profits
regulations slow things down and the
government
is not sufficiently expert in being able
to determine
the efficacy of something or other the
safety of something or other
they have some scientists they have some
doctors
but they're not necessarily the best
they don't necessarily know what they're
doing better than the people who work
in those industries who are actually at
the front line
without these things in particular the
police in the court system
there would be anarchy there would be
chaos there would be a society without
institutions that maintain the stability
required
in order for us to make fast progress
off into the indefinite future so i
agree there is one exception to the rule
here
we need to have a state apparatus that
includes
police to maintain as i say there
stability
while undergoing great change rapid
progress is something that has only
happened over the last few centuries
and it's only happened in places which
have robust
institutions steering society carefully
within the guard rails
that would otherwise if they weren't
there cause chaos and anarchy
so we need courts to settle disputes we
need police to have a monopoly on
violence we need a military to protect
ourselves from
those other countries which are not
stable in the way that we are stable
if everyone was perfectly reasonable all
of the time
if they were just using their reason
then
we would never get into a situation
where the threat of force ever arose we
would simply talk it out and talk it out
indefinitely we would use our reason all
the time and in that case
we could indeed have an
anarcho-capitalist society
but in that case in this anako
capitalist society
we wouldn't even need private security
because everyone would be using their
reason all the time
but in a situation where force is
actually used
sometimes when a dispute arises sadly
then we need a monopoly on violence if
we don't have a monopoly on violence if
we have a
private industry of competing
police forces as the anarcho-capitalists
say that we
could have then you've got warfare this
is effectively the difference between
one state
actor and another state actor where
everyone has their own little fiefdoms
and people go to war this is not good so
to me
anarchy is kind of like the abstract
ideal which can never possibly be
reached
the ideal where everyone always and only
ever
uses their reason all the time and there
is never a possibility of force because
people simply don't even consider it
that's not the situation we're in
it's not the situation we're going to be
in for the foreseeable future i cannot
imagine a scenario in which
people always forever use their reason
because i think we humans are
error-prone
and reason is that very thing which
corrects errors and we're never going to
be without errors to correct if we were
without errors to correct
then i grant we could have an
anarcho-capitalist society
but we're not there we're not going to
get there anytime soon and so therefore
we need a monopoly on violence we need a
state
police force and so therefore we need a
court system to settle disputes
between the citizens and the police and
we need a
government of some kind setting the laws
that would determine how the courts are
going to
arbitrate sputes and of course one hopes
all three of these things are utterly
independent one from another as
independent as you possibly can have
have them be the the government and the
courts and the state apparatus
and the police all acting according to
law but not easily influenced by the
power of each other we don't want the
courts
being influenced by the government who
are using the police
to intimidate them for example and we
don't want the police to be intimidating
the government certainly not
and we don't want the courts constantly
telling the government what to do either
in other words we need at least some
level of socialism
that much is obvious all we're going to
debate now is precisely
how much socialism we need the poorest
among us
need to be sustained in some way so that
they can flourish
that might mean a minimum income in the
case of
where they actually have a job they need
to be given a minimum wage
they shouldn't just be able to be paid
anything by the employer that's seeking
to employ them
that state needs to regulate and set a
minimum wage a minimum
living wage so that people can live at
least somewhat comfortably
that there is a classic slippery slope
argument and the slippery slope is real
it's very real i concede many people who
regard
themselves as free marketeers free
market capitalists or just capitalists
libertarians whatever those of us who
concede
yes we need a government yes we need a
police force yes we need the courts
i'm not arguing for socialism that's not
socialism these are essential components
of a capitalist society so that we can
preserve
the free trading of people one amongst
the other without coercion without
having coercion in that system
so when i begin there by saying if we
admit
that we need to have government-funded
police forces
then therefore we admit that we need
some level of socialism
therefore we're just talking about
degrees of socialism so now let's talk
about how much money to give the
unemployed and the poor
this is the wrong way to think about it
capitalism requires
that there is a monopoly on violence
capitalism requires there are rules of
the game
and the rules of the game can be
enforced by what
by the police under the direction of
courts
implementing laws that the democratic
system the legislators representing the
people
have decided the rules of the game
should be this is not socialism
and by the way many of us of course
think that
in the distant future not as far away as
the
ideal anarchic system where everyone's
using reason all the time
but certainly in the not too distant
future
we could have a situation where society
is so wealthy
that tax rates fall almost to zero
because the only thing that we would be
funding in such a near-to-ideal world a
near-to-ideal capitalist society
is all we need to fund are police and
courts
and the government and when i say the
government i mean literally
the parliament or the congress that's
all we need and the cost
of these things then becomes minimal
even for the military
and in that that case you then have a
situation where you really can have
voluntary taxes this is a long way off
into the future
many people might think this is fantasy
talk and for now it is
but give it time okay we are so much
more wealthy today
than what we were a hundred years ago
compared to a thousand years ago we're
becoming
healthier wealthier wiser
and off into the distant future we'll
have less and less and less coercion
and the logical outcome of that less and
less and less coercion
in society is the capacity to have
very minimal taxation and indeed
voluntary taxation off into the distant
future
none of this is an argument for
socialism
and for those who do not have work or
cannot find work
then they're going to need to be given a
minimum welfare check of some kind
they need to be able to have the freedom
to go out and to buy the bare essentials
they need
the food they need the shelter to put a
roof over their head
they need to be able to clothe
themselves so they can eventually
hopefully
get to a job interview the freedom to go
out there
and to buy the food they need to get the
job they need
in a system which is a socialist system
which has
things like minimum wage this means that
if you are unemployed
and i've been unemployed before but it
means that
there are certain deals as an unemployed
person you can't make it's illegal for
you to make
you can't turn up to someone and say
will you pay me
five dollars per hour to clean your
house you're not allowed to do that
because there's a
minimum wage that cleaners need to be
paid but
if someone needs their house cleaned but
they're not a very wealthy person
and they cannot afford the minimum wage
let's say the minimum wage for a house
cleaner is twelve dollars per hour
but they can't pay twelve dollars per
hour so what do they do they clean their
own house
okay and so they waste their time
cleaning their own house when they could
be doing something better
if they could pay half that amount six
dollars per hour
then they could easily find a cleaner to
do it so what the minimum wage does is
it actually means that some people are
not
able to be employed and of course
minimum wage puts up costs for everyone
if you have a minimum wage on
delivery drivers well that's going to be
passed on to the consumer who buys the
food
a minimum wage for weight staff is going
to cause the price of food in the
restaurant to go up
they need to be able to have the freedom
to go out and to buy the bare essentials
they need
so as as to freedom you know they're not
free actually to
they're far less free they're not free
to get the job that they might otherwise
want
and of course aside from minimum wage we
have unemployment benefits and
we should observe here that in australia
for example
these unemployment benefits are of such
an amount
that people can survive on them it
depends on where you are
if you're in sydney then you're really
going to struggle
to find a house which your unemployment
benefits will
enable you to pay the rent pay for your
food pay for your transport all that
sort of thing
indeed it's going to be quite a low wage
indeed the amount of benefits that you
get from the government is going to be
too low for you to exist in a place like
sydney but you only have to go
a few tens of kilometers out of sydney
maybe 100 maybe 150 and you will find
places where the rent is
far cheaper and where you will be able
to survive at least in a share house or
something like that
until such time as you find a job of
course people don't want to do this
quite often people
want to be paid by the government a
sufficient amount so that they can
live wherever they want eat the kind of
food they want but this just means that
they're not motivated to get a job and
do something productive with their life
so we need socialism to stop people from
falling through the cracks
and you'll know this if you yourself
have ever been a student
or you've been unemployed or you've
suddenly suffered severe sickness
or some other kind of natural disaster
where you need the state
to step in where socialism is required
where society comes together
to help you people who don't even know
you the taxpayers around you
coming to help you the state coming to
help you if people weren't taxed
so much in the first place they could
build up a bank of savings such that
if they suddenly did lose their job then
they would have something to fall back
on
to tide them over until such time as
they were able to get another job
as for being a student well if you're
living at home with your parents
then most of your costs are being met
anyway when i was a student i was
working simultaneously while being a
student
i think this is less common for some
reason these days
as for getting sick the same argument
applies as i was saying earlier
if you weren't taxed so much in the
first place you could build up a bank of
savings
in order to prepare for that rainy day
or at least to be paying to private
health insurance
there's also unemployment insurance that
people can get as well
as to natural disasters yes this is a
place where the state sometimes steps in
in australia we have something called
the state emergency service so that when
there is a huge storm or a flood or a
drought the
or a fire these state emergency service
can step
in but these people are largely working
voluntarily
and so volunteers the society comes
together under those times of crises
to help one another out without needing
to be paid
largely speaking by the state socialism
provides that net and the term safety
net should not be
derided it's important that people know
and have the security of realizing that
should the worst go wrong
then some entity will step in to help
them
the state will step in this you are not
alone the state is able to help you
you're not alone in either case you
don't need the state to step in
when the worst happens and this is clear
to us
almost every single year at least here
in australia advertisements appear
on the television around about christmas
time talking about the salvation army
for example and various other charities
who are there to help people
during those times when they're going
without and it might be a difficult time
for them
so the state doesn't always step in
anyway and once more
if people weren't already taxed so much
then they would have the capacity to be
more generous with the money that
otherwise
they're giving away to the state not
being not giving away that is being
taken from them by the state
the state is spending money in a way
that it deems
fit rather than the way in which the
individual deems fit
i'm a strong advocate for working
locally
so if you see homeless people in your
locale then you should definitely help
them
i think that's an important thing that
you can do within your own community and
builds a
sense of community as well even with
strong social welfare programs such as
australia has
we still have homeless people i think
almost every country in the world
has some kind of homeless problem or
people in need
people unemployed people who can't work
and the state isn't particularly good
at solving that problem charities are
however because then people
work one-on-one it's not some bureaucrat
who has very little interest
in the person in front of them so some
entity will indeed step
in it doesn't need to be the state
however it's preferable
that it's neighbors that it's charities
that it's
people who know personally the people in
need
in many many cases this is family and
friends and this
by the way is an argument for a strong
family connection
such that when you are in trouble if you
have this strong
family this strong family unit then the
state isn't needed at all in the first
place
the family will help out and then
friends can help out
and in those situations where
unfortunately someone doesn't have
family and friends you have
charity the whole point of statism and
socialism
is to devalue the family
to denigrate these smaller more local
connections
and to to dilute the networks the local
networks
in favor of this grand overarching state
apparatus at a very high level
to make the family seem less important
that in fact what you need is you need
to be able to look to
state officials for help and the amount
that the state gives to people isn't
like they're going to become rich
it's just enough to meet their basic
needs
this is why socialism is required so
that people can meet their basic needs
in situations and circumstances where
they otherwise wouldn't be able to
where they might otherwise die of
starvation or die of serious illness
no one is dying of starvation in a place
like australia no one is dying of
starvation in a place like the united
states unless something has gone
severely wrong with the family friends
and local community
it's not up to the federal government
in any of these wealthy nations to be
ensuring that people
do not starve this problem has long
since been
solved as for people dying because
they're not getting sufficient medical
care
that happens within countries like
australia anyway
even with so-called universal health
care
it happens people die sometimes
treatments are too expensive even for
the state
but people should have private health
insurance and where private health
insurance
can't be afforded people can get loans
and as i said people can seek donations
and get charity all of this anyway
is a moot point in a more wealthy
society and a more wealthy
healthy productive society happens when
you tax
people less when you stop confiscating
their wealth
when you allow them to make decisions
about their money better than the state
can
by for example investing it in such a
way they make even more money
and are even more resilient to problems
like
bad health when it happens we need a
minimum wage
so that when you do have a job you have
enough to survive and perhaps even
save some so that you can get out of
that lowest income bracket and maybe
save some money
for a house at this point we should
realize that it would be better
if we taxed the top earners in society
more than what we do
the top one percent as we talk about or
the top 0.001
if we just talk about the most wealthy
people in the united states
it's often said we should tax them more
and then we could pay for so much more
the united states for example
could have free health care for everyone
and
sometimes this is straw man this is a
straw man by saying well
people who claim this you know if we
would just tax the top 100
earning billionaires in the usa somewhat
more
then we could pay for universal health
care and perhaps a universal basic
income well the straw manning of this is
that people don't realize what we're
really talking about is not just taking
the personal income of these people
but taking a little bit of the revenue
of the top
companies the top earning companies
across the united states
people move between tax brackets the top
one percent
in the top 0.1 percent isn't the same
year on year and decade after decade and
generation after generation
that's simply not true when i first got
a job i was absolutely in the minimum
tax bracket i wasn't paying any tax and
then i gradually
moved through the tax brackets i'm still
not in the highest tax bracket
but people are so called upwardly mobile
they move between tax brackets sometimes
you move down sometimes you move
up as for taxing this what top 0.1
yes even if you did tax them most of
their income 90
or something it would be a drop in the
ocean in terms of trying to fund
universal health healthcare for the
united states elon musk and jeff bezos
and
the next 98 wealthiest billionaires
in the united states go nowhere near
enough money having enough money to fund
universal health care across the united
states it's nowhere near the amount
that's required
as for taxing the revenue now if if your
ears didn't prick up when i said revenue
and immediately spot an error then you
should rethink
how much you understand about issues
like economics
revenue is simply how much money you've
taken in without regard to what your
costs are
what people are really interested in is
of course profit
they want to tax profits but i don't
know as i've said before
how a complicated company let's say like
amazon
actually works what they do with their
profits
exactly i know to some extent they're
constantly
innovating they're finding new ways to
get things from
producer to them distributor to
the customer to the person who's buying
the stuff they're using drones and all
sorts of things now in order to do this
if you take away their profits you'll
take away some of their capacity
to innovate the capacity to produce
better services and better products the
capacity to
create more knowledge about how to
create more wealth and make things
better for everyone
the mere existence of amazon has made so
many people's lives better
walmart is the same thing these
companies provide
competition for whatever was there
before
those companies existed people like to
complain that some of these
vast companies are as if they're
monopolies
but that's simply wrong they have
competed and continue to compete with
many
other corporations when it comes to a
corporation like
google that has vast profits people say
it's a monopoly
it's not there are other search engines
out there and by the way what it did
was compete away so many other
alternatives that weren't as good
there's no reason why someone can't
create something that tomorrow
isn't even better service or search
engine than what google is
but if you start to regulate that's a
perfect way or if you start to tax away
their capacity to innovate that's a
perfect way to ensure that
no new competitors enter the market
because those new competitors that
otherwise would have entered the market
and they are subject to the same
regulations
and the same level of taxation and it
makes it all the more hard or more
difficult
for that new competitor to enter the
market big corporations often do like
regulation by the way
because it does keep their competitors
at bay if
something like google is regulated or
facebook is regulated for example
then this means that they can wheel and
deal with
the government they can wheel and deal
with the state with the politicians with
individual
politicians they can lobby for the
particular regulations they want this is
what happens
so that when the regulations are
implemented they're implemented in such
a way
that it is unfavorable for any
competitor to try and enter the market
i mean look at this table look at how
much money
companies like walmart and amazon just
to name the top two
are earning that amount of revenue if it
was
taxed at a higher rate than what it is
would easily provide
enough money for universal basic income
and universal health care across the
country
why not do this this is not only about
economics this is about
morality what we need to do is to have
more compassion in society
we need to consider people who can't
make ends meet at times
who can't find the health care they need
can't afford the health care they need
and who can't afford the food they
otherwise need this is why we need
a welfare state this is why happiness
is very strongly coupled to how
socialist a country is
it is about morality it is about
morality but morality is not primarily
about compassion
compassion is part of it but what it's
mainly about
is not using coercion not forcing
someone to do something they don't want
to do
against their will trying to remove
their capacity to reason and to create
knowledge in a particular area
if someone needs help then the
compassionate thing is to allow people
around them to decide
the extent to which they can help and in
many cases they will be able to help
quite a lot and when they do isn't that
wonderful
they get to demonstrate their compassion
and the person knows who's helping them
and can be grateful for the help i've
been grateful for help before from
people
but if the state steps in who which
person which individual is the person
being helped supposed to be grateful to
everyone not really because not everyone
pays tax after all
they've got no one to thank maybe you
think that's a good thing isn't it good
they don't have to thank anyone
i happen to think it's a bad thing i
think that when someone receives
something
for nothing then this isn't good this is
a one-way transaction
someone has given away something a whole
bunch of people in society in this
particular case when we're talking about
welfare payments or people have given
away
stuff and that person that receives it
doesn't know who's giving it to them
it's a one-way transaction the person
giving away the stuff
doesn't actually even feel good about it
because they haven't willingly given it
i don't willingly give my tax away i
would happily willingly give some of my
money to someone in front of me who
needs help
and i think almost everyone else is the
same what socialism does is it takes
away this opportunity this personal
interaction
this capacity for us to help each other
far more than what we do
this is the danger of these kind of
memes these kind of names that say
leave it to the state to this system
to this legislation this unthinking
machine
whose wheels and cogs are going to grind
away and some people will be helped
and other people won't and the system
doesn't care it doesn't have the
capacity to care
unlike individuals do and this is why we
need to defend socialism
well i have called this video a defense
of socialism
if you think this is unfair that i've
somehow tricked you
maybe you expected the trick after all
it is me
i would say that i'm genuinely defending
socialism here this was my best
attempt at steel manning socialism still
meaning what
i've heard in terms of arguments for
socialism what i've
believed in a previous lifetime about
socialism
that it is supposedly the compassionate
thing and in some cases it's
the only way of doing things and the
best way of doing things
but now i don't think that this is a
genuine defense of socialism
but as popper would implore us defending
something
isn't showing something as true i've
provided all the supporting arguments i
can
for socialism i don't think any of them
are valid what we need instead is to
have
a way of distinguishing one explanation
from another
we have a problem situation our problem
situation is
how to ensure that we create as much
wealth for as many people as we possibly
can
this is one way of framing the problem
another way of throwing the problem
is to say how can we enable as much
creativity as we possibly can
because problems will be encountered in
the future for which we don't have
solutions right now obviously and we're
going to need to find those solutions as
rapidly as possible if we don't want to
go extinct
what is the way in which we can best
create the conditions
such that we are a problem-solving
society
that can rapidly solve problems one way
is to ensure that we can maximize the
amount of wealth
in society and the way to do that is to
maximize the amount of wealth that each
individual
can generate and create this is not done
best by socialism
one of the ways to slow down progress to
slow down wealth creation
and knowledge creation and creativity
broadly speaking
is to have regulations is to take away
money from some people
indeed the people who produce the most
and give it to the
people who produce the least and to have
less motivation for those people who
produce the least
to actually increase the amount of
productivity they have and to actually
demotivate the people who are producing
the most by taking away
so much of their hard-earned wealth in a
truly
progressive by which i mean a society
which values
genuine progress scientific progress
philosophical progress mathematical
progress
economic progress progress across all
areas
enables the individual to flourish to a
maximum extent
within the confines of a society which
has robust institutions which allow for
us to make this rapid progress while
maintaining stability but what it does
not require
are huge amounts of coercion and force
the redistribution of wealth from the
most productive to the least productive
this is my defense of socialism the
defense of socialism
does not stand up against the criticisms
from
capitalism the capitalist theory is a
critique
of socialism and this critique
is an absolutely perfect refutation of
socialism
the best defense of socialism cannot
stand up against
the critiques of capitalism the
critiques of the way in which
wealth is actually generated we generate
wealth best
by being free to explore the space of
possibilities
in terms of innovation and creating
knowledge and building wealth
being able to build something which then
you can show to the other people in
society and they can say wow there's a
lot of value in that
i want a piece of that i want to buy
that product
participate in that organization employ
your services
when people are maximally allowed to do
that and people are allowed to
keep the earnings from being creative
to the greatest extent that they can
then everyone's boat rises with the same
tide
and where as the socialists are
concerned people do actually fall by the
wayside to some extent
through misfortune through accident
through ill health through unemployment
etc etc
then the rest of society is so much more
wealthy
and so much more ready to be generous
that you don't need
a state apparatus to step in less and
less do you need that
because the individuals in that society
are so much more wealthy
and the more wealthy people get the more
generous they get the united states
is very wealthy but it also gives more
charity than anyone else so there's my
defense of socialism
a defense doesn't mean that i agree with
it in fact i don't
i disagree with it strongly and even the
best defense sometimes
isn't good enough
you